# PHP Draft 2.0.0
PHP Draft allows commissioners to setup web-based real-time drafts for their fantasy sports leagues. If your leagues do **offline drafts** (instead of using your fantasy provider's online drafting tools), PHP Draft is just for you! 

The league commissioner creates an account, and then adds your fantasy league. Pick the draft sport and style, specify the number of rounds the draft will last. Add the league managers (teams), and specify pick timers to make sure *that one guy* (you know who) doesn't hold the entire league hostage for an afternoon while he agonizes over whether to choose **Joique Bell** or **Bishop Sankey** in the twelfth round. Hit the start button. 

#### **BOOM**. Your fantasy draft is underway.

Leave a laptop running on a podium and make each team enter their selections as their pick comes up, or be a gatekeeper commissioner and make every pick go through you - it's your choice!

The large color-coded draft board is perfect for displaying on large screen televisions (compatible with Google Chromecast screen casting!) and will display all pertinent info on-screen as it automatically updates.

NFL, NBA, MLB, NHL and even Rugby are supported, along with trades. Watch your draft unfold or run the whole thing from your smartphone with a **Bootstrap**-powered responsive web app!

Don't know how to install a web app or run a web server? No problem:

##### Sign up for a free account on https://www.phpdraft.com and get drafting today!


### Minimum Requirements
- PHP 5.4+ installed
- MySQL 5+ database
- Ability to use `.htaccess` to enable/use `mod_rewrite` (Apache) or `web.config` (IIS)
- Ability to create and edit a file one directory above your PHP Draft install directory
- SMTP mail account (for user registration/password resets)
- Google reCAPTCHA 2 site key (public and private - used to verify new user registration)
- OPTIONAL (but recommended): SSL certificate installed for your domain (for enhanced user privacy/security)

##### If you currently use PHP Draft v1.3.0, please see UPGRADE.md for instructions on how to perform an upgrade instead of a new installation

## Installing PHP Draft 2.0.0

 1. After downloading the latest release, extract the project to a temporary local directory.

 1. Create an empty MySQL database (as well as a corresponding MySQL user that has full access to the database) named `phpdraft`. 
     - If your hosting prepends your account name to the database name that's OK, just be sure to edit `initialize.sql` to match (Step 3) and `appsettings.php` (Step 5) with the correct name.

 1. Execute `/api/Domain/Migrations/2.0.0/initialize.sql` on the `phpdraft` database.
     - If your database name is not precisely `phpdraft`, you must edit **Line 4** of this script to reflect this *before* executing the script.

 1. Copy `[temp local directory]/api/config/EXAMPLE_appsettings.php` to one directory above your temporary local directory (so in the folder above `index.html`), renaming it to `appsettings.php`.

 1. Open `appsettings.php` in a text editor, and edit all applicable settings:

    - `DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`, `DB_USER` and `DB_PASS` will need to be updated to allow PHP Draft to connect to the MySQL database
    - `DB_NAME` corresponds to the database name. In most cases, this can be `phpdraft`
    - `AUTH_KEY` is a secret key that will be used to generate login tokens. Keep it safe (do NOT share it!). If you're not sure what this is, use a "CodeIgniter Encryption Key" generated by www.randomkeygen.com
    - `RECAPTCHA_SECRET` is the private key for your Google reCAPTCHA 2 account. Without it new user registration will fail.
    - `MAIL_SERVER`, `MAIL_USER`, `MAIL_PASS` and `MAIL_PORT` allow PHP Draft to send emails for both new user email verification and password reset emails.
    - `APP_BASE_URL` is the home URL for your PHP Draft installation - for example `http://www.yoursite.com/phpdraft` (whatever you type in to the browser to load PHP Draft). *No trailing slashes!*
    - `API_BASE_URL` is the base url for your PHP Draft API - which should be the same as `APP_BASE_URL` except with `/api` appended to it, like: `http://yoursite.com/phpdraft/api`
    - The rest you can read up and configure as you like, but the above settings are the bare minimum.

 1. If your PHP Draft install will be at the base of the domain or subdomain (as in `your.site.com` or `yoursite.com`), **you may skip this step**. If your base URL looks like yoursite.com/phpdraft, **do the following**:

    - Open `index.html` and find this HTML: `<base href="/">` and change it to match the directory path after the base domain. So if your base URL is `yoursite.com/phpdraft`, then you must edit the HTML like this: `<base href="/phpdraft/">`

 1. Open `js/config.js` and update two values to match your installation:

    - **apiEndpoint** should be a fully qualified URL that points to your PHP Draft API (so `http://www.yoursite.com/phpdraft/api/` is valid - note the trailing slash)
    - **recaptchaPublicKey** should contain the *public key* portion of your Google reCAPTCHA 2 key

 1. In your FTP client, navigate to **one directory level ABOVE where PHP Draft will exist** and upload the `appsettings.php` you edited in Step 5.

    - For example, if my site's absolute server path is `/home/hosting_account/www/`, I need to upload `appsettings.php` to `/home/hosting_account/`. Ideally this file should not be served by the web server, but *must* be readable by PHP scripts in directories below it.

 1. With your FTP client upload all contents of your temporary local directory into the directory that PHP Draft will exist.

 1. Go to the base URL of your PHP Draft install and register a new user account with your email address.

 1. In the `phpdraft` database, find the row in the `users` table that corresponds to your newly created account. Make three edits:

    - Change the value in the `enabled` column to `1` (which will enable your account)
    - Change the value in the `roles` column to `ROLE_ADMIN,ROLE_COMMISH` (which will make your account both a site administrator and a commissioner)
    - Change the value in the `verificationKey` to `NULL` (this deletes the key contained in the new user email sent to your email address - you don't need to validate your own email :) )

 1. Log in with your email address and password.

 1. In the top header bar, click on **Admin Stuff** then select **Player Data**. Using the CSV files contained in the `/resources/` directory, update each sport with the matching CSV file:

  Sport                      | CSV File
  -------------              | -------------
  Football (NFL)             | ProPlayers_NFLStandard_20xx.csv
  Football - Extended Rosters (NFL)    | ProPlayers_NFLExtended_20xx.csv
  Baseball (MLB)             | ProPlayers_MLB_20xx.csv
  Basketball (NBA)             | ProPlayers_NBA_20xx.csv
  Hockey (NHL)               | ProPlayers_NHL_20xx.csv
  Rugby (Super15)            | ProPlayers_Super15_20xx.csv
    

##### Congratulations! You have installed PHP Draft. Enjoy!

## Bugs and feature requests

Submit an issue on the repository (tab at the top) and clearly mark what you're submitting is a **Bug**, **new feature** or something else.
 
## Notes

 1. Version 2 adds full-blown user management and secure access, such that PHP Draft is no longer a *PHP site*, it's now a first class **web application** that can run in a **Software as a Service (SaaS)** model. What does that mean? You don't actually need to install PHP Draft yourself - you can use my site at https://www.phpdraft.com instead :)

    - **I pay out of pocket for my own hosting**. If you use it, please consider making a Paypal donation to **matthew.orres@gmail.com** to help cover the costs. Thanks!

 1. This was a complete project rewrite with 110% feature parity from version 1.3.0 (I added a few nice features/smoothed other things out from 1.3). The only missing "feature" was the MP3 sounds autoplaying when pick timers ran out. I plan on bringing it back soon, but felt it was both A) a superfluous feature at best and B) would risk jeopardizing the 2.0 codebase hardening in time for real life MLB 2016 usage.

    - If you loved this feature, let me know! (Twitter: `@mattheworres` ) I may prioritize it a little higher if I hear from enough folks and add it back in a future version.

 1. This also marks the first time that PHP Draft has been available on Git/Github as opposed to Mercurial/Sourceforge/Bitbucket.

    - Can I just say how awesome Atlassian Bitbucket is?! It kills me to switch from Bitbucket to Github, but the main reason for the switch was...
    - **Sourceforge**. When I started the project in 2010, Sourceforge was an *OK* place for open source projects to live. It's a different story nowadays, unfortunately. SF has turned into a shell of its former self, and never seemed to find a sustainable revenue model. From its issues with "junkware" to the severely declined OS traffic, it makes it less and less advantageous for PHP Draft to live there.
    - **Github** is synonymous with open source, and I hope to switch to both it as well as **Git** over Mercurial will help drive more code contribution. Plus, their platform is just better - it's a one stop shop of a code repository as well as a project homepage where I can easily push new releases.
    - For now, issue tracking will remain in **Atlassian's JIRA** - and I am still incredibly grateful for their lifetime license of the JIRA software for this project. If I end up getting more contributors in the future, I can envision needing to leverage the power that JIRA provides. Stay tuned.

## Contributing & custom development

See DEVELOPMENT.md if you are interested in developing or making custom changes to your PHP Draft.

PHP Draft is now a PHP API with an Angular (Javascript) front end, and has a complicated build toolchain that includes NPM, Bower, Gulp, and Coffeescript (to name a few) - take a gander at that readme for better instructions on how the project is now built.

If you come up with something that others may find worthwhile - please fork this repository and submit a pull request. I provide this code (and the hundreds of hours of my personal time I've poured into the project) free of charge under an open source license without any expectation of payment or even gratitude. I do it to help a few folks out, and to return the favor I ask that you help pass it on :)

## Changelog

See CHANGELOG.md :)

## Creators

**Matthew Orres**

  - https://twitter.com/mattheworres
  - https://github.com/mattheworres
  - http://www.mattheworres.com

## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2010-2016 Matthew Orres. Code released under the GNU v3 license.
